bootstrap/vagrant-minimal-onap/README.rst, before:

=====================================================
 ONAP Integration > Bootstrap > Vagrant Minimal ONAP
=====================================================

This directory contains a set of Vagrant scripts that will automatically set up:

- Devstack,
- RKE-based Kubernetes cluster,
- Operator's machine with configured tools (kubectl, helm).

This is intended to show a beginning ONAP operator how to set up and configure an environment that
can successfully deploy minimal ONAP instance from scratch. Its main purpose are ONAP demos and
proofs of concepts. It is not intended to be used as a production ONAP environment.

NOTE: the Devstack instance is NOT SECURED, with default credentials:

+-------+----------------+
| User  | Password       |
+-------+----------------+
| admin | default123456! |
+-------+----------------+
| demo  | default123456! |
+-------+----------------+


Requirements
------------

+-------------+-----+-------+
| Machine     | CPU |  RAM  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| Operator    |  1  | 1GiB  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| Devstack    |  2  | 6GiB  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| K8s Control |  1  | 1GiB  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| K8s Worker  |  2  | 12GiB |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| TOTAL       |  6  | 20GiB |
+-------------+-----+-------+

Table above is based on current experience and may be subject to change.


Prerequisites
-------------

Virtualisation provider
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Environment has been tested using libvirt_ provider with vagrant-libvirt_ plugin. Plugin
documentation provides detailed `installation instructions`_ that will guide through the process.

.. note::
   Remember to uncomment `deb-src` repositories for `apt-get build-dep` step on Debian/Ubuntu.

.. _libvirt: https://libvirt.org
.. _vagrant-libvirt: https://github.com/vagrant-libvirt/vagrant-libvirt
.. _`installation instructions`: https://github.com/vagrant-libvirt/vagrant-libvirt#installation

Virtual machine manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Environment has been tested using latest Vagrant_ as of writing this documentation (`v2.2.6`_). Some
features (e.g. triggers_) might not be supported on older versions.

.. _Vagrant: https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html
.. _`v2.2.6`: https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant/blob/v2.2.6/CHANGELOG.md#226-october-14-2019
.. _triggers: https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/triggers/


Running
-------

Additional `--provider` flag or setting `VAGRANT_DEFAULT_PROVIDER` environmental variable might be
useful in case there are multiple providers available.

.. note::
   Following command should be executed within the directory where `Vagrantfile` is stored
   (`integration/bootstrap/vagrant-minimal-onap`).

.. code-block:: sh
   vagrant up --provider=libvirt

Commit message:

Add minimal Vagrant environment usage documentation
This patch also clarifies which virtual machines are created within this
Vagrant environment.

Issue-ID: ONAPARC-551
Change-Id: I2ece1bbf77b147c74f745ddfb26bf80143ac95ab
Signed-off-by: Pawel Wieczorek <p.wieczorek2@samsung.com>

bootstrap/vagrant-minimal-onap/README.rst, after:

=====================================================
 ONAP Integration > Bootstrap > Vagrant Minimal ONAP
=====================================================

This directory contains a set of Vagrant scripts that will automatically set up:

- Devstack,
- RKE-based Kubernetes cluster (single control plane node and single worker plane node),
- Operator's machine with configured tools (kubectl, helm).

This is intended to show a beginning ONAP operator how to set up and configure an environment that
can successfully deploy minimal ONAP instance from scratch. Its main purpose are ONAP demos and
proofs of concepts. It is not intended to be used as a production ONAP environment.

NOTE: the Devstack instance is NOT SECURED, with default credentials:

+-------+----------------+
| User  | Password       |
+-------+----------------+
| admin | default123456! |
+-------+----------------+
| demo  | default123456! |
+-------+----------------+


Requirements
------------

+-------------+-----+-------+
| Machine     | CPU |  RAM  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| Operator    |  1  | 1GiB  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| Devstack    |  2  | 6GiB  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| K8s Control |  1  | 1GiB  |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| K8s Worker  |  2  | 12GiB |
+-------------+-----+-------+
| TOTAL       |  6  | 20GiB |
+-------------+-----+-------+

Table above is based on current experience and may be subject to change.


Prerequisites
-------------

Virtualisation provider
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Environment has been tested using libvirt_ provider with vagrant-libvirt_ plugin. Plugin
documentation provides detailed `installation instructions`_ that will guide through the process.

.. note::
   Remember to uncomment `deb-src` repositories for `apt-get build-dep` step on Debian/Ubuntu.

.. _libvirt: https://libvirt.org
.. _vagrant-libvirt: https://github.com/vagrant-libvirt/vagrant-libvirt
.. _`installation instructions`: https://github.com/vagrant-libvirt/vagrant-libvirt#installation

Virtual machine manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Environment has been tested using latest Vagrant_ as of writing this documentation (`v2.2.6`_). Some
features (e.g. triggers_) might not be supported on older versions.

.. _Vagrant: https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html
.. _`v2.2.6`: https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant/blob/v2.2.6/CHANGELOG.md#226-october-14-2019
.. _triggers: https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/triggers/


Running
-------

Additional `--provider` flag or setting `VAGRANT_DEFAULT_PROVIDER` environmental variable might be
useful in case there are multiple providers available.

.. note::
   Following command should be executed within the directory where `Vagrantfile` is stored
   (`integration/bootstrap/vagrant-minimal-onap`).

.. code-block:: sh
   vagrant up --provider=libvirt


Usage
-----

Once ready (bringing up machines might initially take some time), tools for cluster management will
be available on Operator's machine. It can be accessed by executing:

.. code-block:: sh
   vagrant ssh operator

Although appropriate context is set for `kubectl` on login, when interacting with the cluster the
`onap` namespace has to be explicitly specified.
