test/mocks/mass-pnf-sim/README.md, before:

### Mass PNF simulator
The purpose of this simulator is to mimic the PNF for benchmark purposes.
This variant is based on the PNF simulator and use several components.
The modification are focusing on the following areas:
    -add a script configuring and governing multiple instances of PNF simualtor
    -removing parts which are not required for benchmark purposes.
    -add functionality which creates and maintains the ROP files
    -add functionality to query the actual ROP files and construct VES events based on them



###Pre-configuration
The ipstart should align to a /28 Ip address range start (e.g. 10.11.0.16, 10.11.0.32)

For debug purposes, you can use your own IP address as VES collector, use "ip" command to determine it.

Example:
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --bootstrap 2 --urlves http://10.148.95.??:10000/eventListener/v7 --ipfileserver 10.148.95.??? --ipstart 10.11.0.16

Note that the file creator is started at a time of the bootstrapping.
Stop/start will not re-launch it.

###Replacing VES for test purposes
`sudo nc -vv -l -k -p 10000`

###Start
Define the amount of simulators to be launched
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --start 2

###Trigger
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --trigger 2

###Stop and clean
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --stop 2
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --clean

###Verbose printout from Python
python3 -m trace --trace --count -C . ./mass-pnf-sim.py .....

###Cleaning and recovery after incorrect configuration
docker stop $(docker ps -aq); docker rm $(docker ps -aq)

Commit message:

Mass-pnf-sim selective trigger
Change-Id: I187abf1953843329b5d4b2a424cbcb75a2d906c9
Issue-ID: DCAEGEN2-1434
Signed-off-by: TamasBakai <tamas.bakai@est.tech>

test/mocks/mass-pnf-sim/README.md, after:

### Mass PNF simulator
The purpose of this simulator is to mimic the PNF for benchmark purposes.
This variant is based on the PNF simulator and use several components.
The modification are focusing on the following areas:
    -add a script configuring and governing multiple instances of PNF simualtor
    -removing parts which are not required for benchmark purposes.
    -add functionality which creates and maintains the ROP files
    -add functionality to query the actual ROP files and construct VES events based on them



###Pre-configuration
The ipstart should align to a /28 Ip address range start (e.g. 10.11.0.16, 10.11.0.32)

For debug purposes, you can use your own IP address as VES collector, use "ip" command to determine it.

Example:
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --bootstrap 2 --urlves http://10.148.95.??:10000/eventListener/v7 --ipfileserver 10.148.95.??? --ipstart 10.11.0.16

Note that the file creator is started at a time of the bootstrapping.
Stop/start will not re-launch it.

###Replacing VES for test purposes
`sudo nc -vv -l -k -p 10000`

###Start
Define the amount of simulators to be launched
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --start 2

###Trigger
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --trigger 2

###Trigger only a subset of the simulators
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --triggerstart 0 --triggerend 3
#this will trigger 0,1,2,3 

./mass-pnf-sim.py  --triggerstart 4 --triggerend 5
#this will trigger 4,5

###Stop and clean
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --stop 2
./mass-pnf-sim.py  --clean

###Verbose printout from Python
python3 -m trace --trace --count -C . ./mass-pnf-sim.py .....

###Cleaning and recovery after incorrect configuration
docker stop $(docker ps -aq); docker rm $(docker ps -aq)
